docs: add v4 migration docs page (#2350)
nextauthjs/next-auth: www/docs/getting-started/upgrade-to-v4.md

---
id: upgrade-v4
title: Upgrade Guide (v4)
---

NextAuth.js version 4.0 included a few breaking changes from the last major version (3.0). So we're here to help you upgrade your applications as smoothly as possible. It should be possible to upgrade from any version of 3.x to the latest 4.0 release by following the next few migration steps.

### 1. Database Adapters

> If you are using the built-in TypeORM or Prisma adapters, these have been removed from the core `next-auth` package so as to not balloon the package size for users who do not need a database. Thankfully the migration is super easy, you just need to install the external packages for your database now and adapt your `[...nextauth].js` config file a bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the built-in TypeORM or Prisma adapters, these have been removed from the core `next-auth` package to not balloon the package size for users who do not need a database. Thankfully the migration is super easy; you just need to install the external packages for your database now and change your `[...nextauth].js` config file a bit.
```
Grammar suggestions ✍🏼

```diff
// [...nextauth].js
import NextAuth from "next-auth"
- import Adapters from "next-auth/adapters"
+ import TypeORMAdapter from "@next-auth/typeorm-legacy-adapter"

...
export default NextAuth({
-  database: Adapters.TypeORM.Adapter(...),
+  adapter: TypeORMAdapter("yourconnectionstring")
})
```

Also the `AzureADB2C` provider has been renamed `AzureAD`.

See [nextauthjs/adapter](https://github.com/nextauthjs/adapters) for more details.

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.8

### 2. next-auth/react

We've renamed the clientside import source to `next-auth/react`. To comply with this change, you will simply have to rename anywhere you were using `next-auth/client`.

For example:

```diff
- import { useSession } from "next-auth/client"
+ import { useSession } from "next-auth/react"
```

We've also made the following changes to the names of the exports:

> - `setOptions`: Not exposed anymore, use `SessionProvider` props
> - `options`: Not exposed anymore, use `SessionProvider` props

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `setOptions`: Not exposed anymore, use [`SessionProvider` props](https://next-auth-git-ndom91-add-migration-docs-nextauthjs.vercel.app/getting-started/client#options)
- `options`: Not exposed anymore, [use `SessionProvider` props](https://next-auth-git-ndom91-add-migration-docs-nextauthjs.vercel.app/getting-started/client#options)
```

> - `session`: Rename to `getSession`
> - `providers`: Rename to `getProviders`
> - `csrfToken`: Rename to `getCsrfToken`
> - `signin`: Rename to `signIn`
> - `signout`: Rename to `signOut`
> - `Provider`: Rename to `SessionProvider`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `session`: Renamed to `getSession`
- `providers`: Renamed to `getProviders`
- `csrfToken`: Renamed to `getCsrfToken`
- `signin`: Renamed to `signIn`
- `signout`: Renamed to `signOut`
- `Provider`: Renamed to `SessionProvider`
```

      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </SessionProvider>
  )
}
```

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.12

### 4. Named Parameters

We have changed the arguments to our callbacks to the named parameters pattern. This way you don't have to use dummy `_` placeholders or other tricks.

The signatures for the callback methods now look like this:

```diff
- signIn(user, account, profileOrEmailOrCredentials)
+ signIn({ user, account, profile, email, credentials })
```

```diff
- redirect(url, baseUrl)
+ redirect({ url, baseUrl })
```

```diff
- session(session, tokenOrUser)
+ session({ session, token, user })
```

```diff
- jwt(token, user, account, OAuthProfile, isNewUser)
+ jwt({ token, user, account, profile, isNewUser })
```

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.17

### 5. useSession Hook

The `useSession` hook has been updated to return an object. This allows you to test states much more cleanly with the new `status` option.

```diff
- const [ session, loading ] = useSession()
+ const { data: session, status } = useSession()
+ const loading = status === "loading"
```

> 
> Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.18

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Check the docs](https://next-auth-git-ndom91-add-migration-docs-nextauthjs.vercel.app/getting-started/client#options) for the possible values of both `session.status` and `session.data`. 

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.18
```

### 6. nodemailer

> `nodemailer` is no longer a dependency and added by default. If you are using the Email provider you can install it in your project manually, or use any other Email library in the [`sendVerificationRequest`](/configuration/providers#options-1#:~:text=sendVerificationRequest) callback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`nodemailer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/normalizer) is no longer a dependency and added by default. If you are using the Email provider you can install it in your project manually, or use any other Email library in the [`sendVerificationRequest`](/configuration/providers#options-1#:~:text=sendVerificationRequest) callback.
```

Author: Small copy + paste error I think, but good call adding the link. Ill commit that myself :+1:

---
id: upgrade-v4
title: Upgrade Guide (v4)
---

NextAuth.js version 4.0 included a few breaking changes from the last major version (3.0). So we're here to help you upgrade your applications as smoothly as possible. It should be possible to upgrade from any version of 3.x to the latest 4.0 release by following the next few migration steps.

### 1. Database Adapters

If you use the built-in TypeORM or Prisma adapters, these have been removed from the core `next-auth` package to not balloon the package size for users who do not need a database. Thankfully the migration is super easy; you just need to install the external packages for your database now and change your `[...nextauth].js` config file a bit.

```diff
// [...nextauth].js
import NextAuth from "next-auth"

> - import Adapters from "next-auth/adapters"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

+ import TypeORMAdapter from "@next-auth/typeorm-legacy-adapter"

...
export default NextAuth({

> -  database: Adapters.TypeORM.Adapter(...),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  database: "yourconnectionstring",
```

+  adapter: TypeORMAdapter("yourconnectionstring")
})
```

> Also the `AzureADB2C` provider has been renamed `AzureAD`.

Reviewer 2: This should probably go under section 9

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.2

### 7. Logger API

The logger API has been simplified to use at most two parameters, where the second is usually an object (`metadata`) containing an `error` object. If you are not using the logger settings you can ignore this change.

```diff
// [...nextauth.js]
import log from "some-logger-service"
...
logger: {
- error(code, ...message) {},
+ error(code, metadata) {},
- warn(code, ...message) {},
+ warn(code) {}
- debug(code, ...message) {}
+ debug(code, metadata) {}
}
```

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.19

### 8. Events

Two event signatures changes to also use the named parameters pattern, `signOut` and `updateUser`.

```diff
// [...nextauth].js
...
events: {
- signOut(tokenOrSession),
+ signOut({ token, session }), // token if using JWT, session if DB persisted sessions.
- updateUser(user)
+ updateUser({ user })
}
```

Introduced in https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/releases/tag/v4.0.0-next.20

### 9. Providers

> All OAuth providers' `profile` callback are expected to only return these fields by default from now on: `id`, `name`, `email`, and `image` at most. If any of these are missing values, they should be set to `null`.

Reviewer 2: Should point out that this is only the case when someone wants to add their provider to the built-in ones. The reason for this BTW, because I intend to require only these fileds on default user models for the official adapters as well.

The following new options are available:

1. `authorization` (replaces `authorizationUrl`, `authorizationParams`, `scope`)
2. `token` replaces (`accessTokenUrl`, `headers`, `params`)
3. `userinfo` (replaces `profileUrl`)

> For more information on how to use these new options, please checkout the full release notes below.

Reviewer 2: We need to explain this better in the migration doc. We should chat about this so I can explain better.

Author: Yeah I wasn't sure what this one was about 100% haha. We can talk about this copy in our next chat and clean this section up :+1:
